The behavior section of our Google Analytics kans can tell us a lot of information about how our Web
site visitors are interacting with our site.
And in this video we're going to look at three of the key reports the landing page report the all pages
report and the exit pages report so that we can find some opportunities to optimize that Web site experience.
So let's get started with the landing page report.
Now a landing page is a page through which visitors enter your site and you really want to make sure
that the top landing page here is optimized to get people to come further into your site and that could
be to read a blog post that could be to look at a product and out of the card but really want to make
sure that those landing pages that could be receiving up to 50 percent of how people are coming into
your site that they're actually guiding people to take an action and continue on to your site.
One of the best metrics that you can use to assess the performance of your landing pages is the balance
raise.
And if we look at this site comparison tool here and compare these landing pages on Banse raised we
can really have a look and see any of these non-name pages that have a bounce rate that is much higher
than the site average.
Now this is something of a red flag and something that we would want to improve.
We get a significant amount of sessions to this page and so we would really want to investigate this
and see what might be wrong if we click this open here.
We might be able to actually see the page this may be the case that this page is actually broken.
And so that's something that we might want to fix.
It would require a little bit more investigation.
But that is something that we could easily fix so that the experience of people coming to our side for
the first time is better and that we are really getting them to interact with our side further.
Now let's move on to the old pages report.
Now this shows us not only are landing pages but all of the pages on our Web site and a great way to
assess the performance of these pages is to look once again at the site comparison tool.
But this time to look at the average time on page.
And this would really tell us where our Web site visitors are spending most of their time.
Now we will differ if it's an e-commerce site or a content site like a blog.
But really here we can see that they're spending more time in this Baskett page and it's 72 percent
higher than the average for other pages on the Web site.
So what we might like to do in this case is have a look at that page and see how we could speed up the
process.
So they moved to that order completed page.
If this were a blog post we might say well they're spending a lot more time on this page.
That means they're spending more time reading it and perhaps we could create more content like that
in order to keep them on the site longer or to continue reading.
Now let's move on to our final report which is the exit pages report and this will really show us where
our Web site visitors are leaving our site and we really want to get visitors to stay on the site longer
and maybe complete that order.
So we want to plug these gaps so that the they have a better experience.
And once again we can use the same side comparison too and this time we can look at the percentage of
exits so we can see which pages are responsible for more exits.
And once again we're looking for those pages that are higher than the site average.
So we could look at these sites or these pages and really look to improve these.
Now order completed.
It's probably very natural that they would leave the site after completing an order but maybe for this
page that could be improved.
And the way that we can really optimize these pages is especially look at these pages that are performing
well that have a much lower percentage of the exits and see what's happening on these pages had they're
laid out and use some of the best practices there apply them to these pages that account for the largest
amount of exits.
And then we can reduce people exiting our side and once again guide them towards those girls that we
want them to complete.
So as you can see the behavior reports in Google Analytics can give you a ton of information about how
users are interacting with your site and it gives you plenty of insights into things you can do to optimize
that experience and guide them towards completing the goals that you want them to complete.